# PolarGroup
Code for paper "PolarGroup: Polar Coordinate-based Human Pose Estimation with Median-IoU Loss"
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Regression-based multi-person pose estimation methods have gained increasing attention in recent years due to their efficiency. However, compared to typical bottom-up methods, regression-based methods require an extra prediction head for person instance locating, which results in reduced inference efficiency. Additionally, it introduces quantization errors caused by heatmap regression, which are further amplified when mapping the root node coordinates to offset prediction heads. To overcome this problem, a Polar Confidence Representation (PCR) is first proposed to eliminate the redundant prediction head by using a polar coordinate. In PCR, the 2D offset in the Cartesian coordinate is transformed into an angle component and length component in the polar coordinate. Moreover, PCR integrates the prediction of the root node with the regression of the angle into a single branch with the characteristics of the angle component. For the length component, we construct a new Intersection over Union (IoU) loss, called median-IoU loss to reduce the difficulty of polar ray regression and improve the efficiency and stability of the training process. For inference, to further relieve the quantization errors caused by mapping, we design a grouping strategy based on multi-channel root nodes. On the MS-COCO dataset and the CrowdPose dataset, our method demonstrates comparable performance to previous bottom-up approaches, while having a lower computation cost and increased processing speed.
